factorio-draftsman: A Python module for creating blueprint strings (#628)
ClaudeMetz/Alt-F4: _drafts/main.md

            try:
                blueprint.add_circuit_connection("red", here, right)
            except KeyError:
                pass
            try:
                blueprint.add_circuit_connection("red", here, below)
            except KeyError:
                pass

    print("Number of items added:", signal_count)
    print(blueprint.to_string())

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

This script is concise and easy to follow, but the really amazing thing about Draftsman is that this script is completely dynamic and can adjust to whatever version of Factorio that you're playing. New items, removed items, or changed stack sizes, regardless of the author of the change, are resolved automatically with the exact same code. For illustration, pictured top-left is what's generated by running the script for a vanilla game, top-right a game with the medium-sized overhaul modpack [Space Exploration](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/space-exploration), and at the bottom a [Bobs](https://mods.factorio.com/user/Bobingabout) + [Pyanodon](https://mods.factorio.com/user/pyanodon) mega-modpack:

![Results](https://media.alt-f4.blog/ALTF4/61/item_stack_size_output.jpg)

> This doesn't only applies to items either. All entities, instruments, signals, recipes, modules, and tiles are pulled from the emulated load process and then stored as *pickle* files in Draftsman for later use. Any script can be designed to be completely flexible across these categories; extra instruments in a new programmmable speaker, new module types only in certain machines, complete virtual signal lists for signal mappings, etc., all are interpreted correctly by Draftsman. By saving the data of the current mod configuration internally for later, this also means that you only have to update the data once, each time you change what mods you're using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This doesn't only applies to items either. All entities, instruments, signals, recipes, modules, and tiles are pulled from the emulated load process and then stored in Draftsman for later use. Any script can be designed to be completely flexible across these categories; extra instruments in a new programmmable speaker, new module types only in certain machines, complete virtual signal lists for signal mappings, etc., all are interpreted correctly by Draftsman. By saving the data of the current mod configuration internally for later, this also means that you only have to update the data once, each time you change what mods you're using.
```

* **Draftsman is easy to use.** Designed from the start to be simple and (most importantly) self-documenting, Draftsman allows you to manipulate blueprints and entities by auto-completable attributes and methods.
* **Draftsman is well-documented.** Every function, method, attribute, and class is documented and crosslinked at its [readthedocs site](https://factorio-draftsman.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest). In addition, tutorials and supplementary materials are provided, as well as a whole host of [example programs](https://github.com/redruin1/factorio-draftsman/tree/main/examples) to help illustrate how Draftsman works.
* **Draftsman is stable.** A rigorous suite of tests ensure that Draftsman behaves predictably and correctly (or at least correctly enough), with a code coverage of 100%. Draftsman is verified to work on the latest versions of Python 2 and 3, and is compatible with all versions of Factorio greater than 1.0, with the metrics to prove it.

> * **Draftsman is descriptive.** Draftsman enforces "Factorio-safety" as a core philosophy, which means that if a blueprint would result in an error on import in Factorio, an exception is thrown by Draftsman. Draftsman also tries to enforce "Factorio-correctness", which means that values that won't break, but are otherwise nonsensical, will raise warnings. Both errors and warnings are verbose, so that any problem with your script can be understood and resolved in seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Draftsman is descriptive.** Draftsman enforces "Factorio-safety" as a core philosophy, which means that if a blueprint would have an import error in Factorio, an exception is thrown by Draftsman. Draftsman also tries to enforce "Factorio-correctness", which means that values that won't break, but are otherwise nonsensical, will raise warnings. Both errors and warnings are verbose, so that any problem with your script can be understood and resolved in seconds.
```

* **Draftsman is close-to-source.** Draftsman bases all of its data off of [Wube's `factorio-data` repository](https://github.com/wube/factorio-data), which means that all entities are exactly as you would expect in-game, with no inconsistencies. This makes Draftsman up-to-date, makes updating Draftsman for future Factorio versions a breeze, and allows version control to monitor changes between Draftsman and Factorio, if any future breakage should occur.

> * **Draftsman supports mods.** Draftsman emulates [Factorio's data lifecycle](https://lua-api.factorio.com/latest/Data-Lifecycle.html) directly, meaning that the same loading process that happens when you launch the game is mimicked with a single Draftsman function. In addition to ensuring absolute accuracy to Factorio, this also makes it compatible with custom mod prototypes that can be accessed in script as if they were any other vanilla entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Draftsman supports mods.** Draftsman emulates [Factorio's data lifecycle](https://lua-api.factorio.com/latest/Data-Lifecycle.html) directly, meaning that the same loading process that happens when you launch the game is mimicked with a single Draftsman function. In addition to ensuring absolute accuracy to Factorio, this also means that custom mod prototypes can be accessed from Draftsman as if they were any other vanilla entity.
```

Draftsman has custom classes designed around each individual entity and prototype, and is designed to work as seamlessly as possible with blueprint strings and other software. Draftsman converts to and from these prototypes when you import and export blueprint strings automatically, no extra steps required. You can import a blueprint string from Factorio as a `Blueprint` object, make any change you want, and then export that `Blueprint` object back into a string. Or, you can just make an entirely new `Blueprint` from scratch; Draftsman is designed to work around you, not for you to work around it.

> Draftsman also has support for custom `"EntityLike"` objects, most notably `Group` objects, that allow you to create custom constructs that can be inserted into blueprints for aid with clarity and compartmentalization. For example, you can make a design for a smelting block in a `Group`, and then you can place that block as many times as you want, whereever you want, rotated or flipped, essentially acting as a copy-paste tool within Draftsman.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Draftsman also has support for custom `"EntityLike"` objects, most notably `Group` objects, that allow you to create custom constructs that can be inserted into blueprints for aid with clarity and compartmentalization. For example, you can make a design for a smelting block in a `Group`, and then you can place that block as many times as you want, wherever you want, rotated or flipped, essentially acting as a copy-paste tool within Draftsman.
```

In an effort to keep this article brief, I'm not going to go too far into the nitty-gritty about the module or how exactly it works; I've spent a lot of time writing documentation for that purpose instead. Rather, I'm going to show off a couple of things that I've made with it so far, as well as potential things that could be made in the future, to try to illustrate exactly why I spent all this time making it in the first place.

### Automatic Item Stack Sizes

Oftentimes, for you want to figure out how much storage you need for a specific amount of an item. However, storage in Factorio is based on slots, not amounts, so the amount of storage is actually dependent on not only the amount you're trying to store, but also the stack size of that item. [You can design a circuit contraption](https://factorioprints.com/view/-LwH68dlvOEIKWkU5JqR) to determine the number of slots that you need for any input item, but you'd need a big cell of combinators documenting the item sizes. This is *boring* to make, and easily broken if a new item is added or the stack size is changed. Clearly, for such a simple and repetitive task, a script is better suited:

```python

> # Create a N x 5 grid of connected constant combinators, with every item and their stack size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create an N x 5 grid of connected constant combinators, with every item and their stack size
```

    x = 0
    y = 0
    combinator = ConstantCombinator(direction=Direction.SOUTH)

    # Iterate over every item in order:
    for item in items.raw:
        # Ignore hidden items/entities
        if "flags" in items.raw[item]:
            if "hidden" in items.raw[item]["flags"]:
                continue
        # Keep track of how many signals we've gone through
        signals_added += 1
        # Write the stack size signal
        stack_size = items.raw[item]["stack_size"]
        combinator.set_signal(signal_index, item, stack_size)
        signal_index += 1
        # Once we exceed the number of signals a combinator can hold, place it and reset
        if signal_index == combinator.item_slot_count:
            # Add the combinator to the blueprint
            combinator.id = "{}_{}".format(x, y)
            blueprint.entities.append(combinator)
            # Reset the combinator
            combinators_added += 1
            y = combinators_added % COMBINATOR_HEIGHT
            x = int(combinators_added / COMBINATOR_HEIGHT)
            combinator.set_signals(None) # Clear signals
            combinator.tile_position = (x, y)
            signal_index = 0

>     if len(combinator.signals) > 0:
>         # Add the last combinator if partially full

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Add the last combinator if partially full
    if len(combinator.signals) > 0:
```
